Hapify uses specific terms to describe its concepts.

- **boilerplate**: A boilerplate is an application base. It is from this that you will build a new application. It is composed of static files and dynamic files.
- **dynamic file**: File that is generated by Hapify via a template and data models.
- **static file**: Any other file that is not generated: Example: Docker files, CSS files, libraries, plugins, etc.
- **template**: File containing meta-code that can be used to generate target code. There are several template engines, each of which can interpret a different meta-code.
- **channel**: A set of templates. Most boilerplates have only one channel. However, a full-stack boilerplate may contain two channels, one for front-end templates and one for back-end templates.
- **model**: Relational data model describing the specifications of a project.
- **field**: An entry in a data model.
- **field type**: Property of a field describing its data type. Example: text, boolean, number, etc.
- **field attribute**: Property of a field describing its behavior. Example: searchable, hidden, etc.
- **project**: Application defined by a list of data models.
- **target code**: Source code generated by a template fed by one or more data models. This is the source code used by the final application.
- **meta-code**: Source code of the template. This code will describe how to generate the target code from one or more data models.
- **presets**: Collections of predefined data models that can be imported at the start of a project.
